Why stylistic analysis?

when  a person, who with his/her knowledge goes and search for some language-based evidences to support 
or challenge the subjective interpretations of various and cultural and critics comentators.

Narrator:

    There are different types of narrators (in fiction), the writer can use different narrators. The narrator IS NOT the author of the text.

        First person narrator: 
            
            The narrator is an "I" (ocasionally "we"), who speaks from her/his subject position. We see the interactions through the narrator's eyes,
            and we can't know anything the narrator doesn't.

            This narrator is often used in crime fiction. It is also used in memoires, the epistolary genre or personal diaries.

            James Joyce was a user of the "internal monologue".

            It is usually the story's protagonist and the axis of the narration. He/she gives credibility to the main character. A character who narrates the story
            in the first person is percieved as real by the reader, as he/she speaks to the readers directly. He/she has a subjective and restricted POV.

            The protagonist has his/her individual opinions, thoughts and feelings of the world around him/her, and as the reader we have to accept to live the story though his/her eyes.

            The voice behind this first-person narrator belongs to the protagonist, not to the author.


        The second person narrator:

            The narrator speaks in "you". It is a way of putting the reader in the writer's shoes. through this technique wants to show that the emotions and experiencies he/she has gathered
            through his/her life could be those of any other person in the world.

            The reader is the protagonist. The narrator has to make the reader feel that he/she has become the story's main character.
            This type of narrator must show a deep psychological insight.

            The writer has to describe in detail what happens in the story so that the reader can visualize him/herself in the middle of the action, this requires the writer to anticipate the
            reader's reactions, thoughts and feelings in order to avoid discordance.

            The setting is crucial, in order to get the reader's interest and make him/her feel like they belong in the story. The story is written using the present tense.



        Third person narrator:

            This type of narrator is the most common in fiction. He or she is an OBSERVER who is outside of the action being told or described. The third-person narrator might be omniscient
            (he/she might be able to know what people are thinking, observing or thinking).

            This third-person may be focalized through a particular character, meaning that the narrator tells us how the character sees the world but can't or at least doesn't read the mind of
            the characters this way.

            This type of character may be confused with the omniscient narrator, subjective narrator adopts the point of view of the characters of the story.

            This third person narrator will be wiser than a first person narrator, as he can descibe his chosen hero/heroine from both inside and outside perspectives.


                How much does the narrator know?

                    Is he/she presenting all the information or does he know everything.

                Time?
                    Do events take place "now"? Or in the past? Are this past recollections fresh or distant? 

                Is this narrator a participant in, or a witness to, the action?

                Is the story second-hand, related "as told to" the narrator?

                    How much of the event do you know, and how does that affect the story?

                Is the narrator reliable or unreliable? What are his/her limits? How much authority can the narrator hold?

                Why is the story being told, why now?

Diction

Theme

Tone

Imagery

Irony

Juxtaposation

Mood

Pacing

Paralelism

Cohesion

Coherence

Figrues of speech

Metaphores

Personifications

Slang

Jargon

Colloquialism

Connotation

Interpretation of the meaning of the text

Discourse

Themes